== Overview

This README will explain the steps you need to take to install a Ruby on Rails development enviroment on an Ubuntu 16.04 Xenial Xerus machine. These commands may also work on other versions of Linux but its not guaranteed.

The reason I recommend you develop on a Linux machine is because when you are ready to deploy your app to the internet, 99.9% of the time you will be running it on a Linux server. So it helps if you develop on Linux, that way it will be guaranteed to work on a Linux server.

== Installing Ruby

First we need to install some dependencies for Ruby.

  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get install git-core curl zlib1g-dev build-essential libssl-dev libreadline-dev libyaml-dev libsqlite3-dev sqlite3 libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev python-software-properties libffi-dev
  
Next we will install Ruby using rbenv. Most people prefer using rbenv these days as it has the least issuses.

Installing with +rbenv+ is a simple two step process. First you install +rbenv+, and then +ruby-build+.
  
  cd
  git clone https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv.git ~/.rbenv
  echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
  echo 'eval "$(rbenv init -)"' >> ~/.bashrc
  exec $SHELL

  git clone https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build.git ~/.rbenv/plugins/ruby-build
  echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/plugins/ruby-build/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
  exec $SHELL

  rbenv install 2.3.1
  rbenv global 2.3.1
  ruby -v
  
The last step is to install Bundler.
  
  gem install bundler
  
rbenv users need to run the rehash command after installing bundler.
  
  rbenv rehash
  
== Configuring Git

Using Git is an essential part of developing and every developer should have this skill nailed down. If you don't have a GitHub account, make sure you register here[https://github.com/join?source=header-home].

Replace my name and email address in the following steps with the ones you used for your Github account.
  
  git config --global color.ui true
  git config --global user.name "YOUR NAME"
  git config --global user.email "YOUR@EMAIL.com"
  ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "YOUR@EMAIL.com"

Next we want to take the newly generated SSH key and add it to your GitHub account. This will allow you to use SSH to pull and push your repoistory. You want to copy and paste the output of the following command and paste it here[https://github.com/settings/ssh].

  cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub

Run this command to see if it worked.
  
  ssh -T git@github.com
  
You should get this message.
  
  Hi AstinT! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access.
  
== Installing Rails

The next step is to install a JavaScript runtime like NodeJS that will allow us to use Coffeescript and the Asset Pipeline in Rails.

To install NodeJS, we're going to add it using the official repository.

  curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_4.x | sudo -E bash -
  sudo apt-get install -y nodejs
  
Install Rails

  gem install rails -v 4.2.6

rbenv users need to run the rehash command again to make the rails executable avaliable.
  
  rbenv rehash
  
We can easily check everything has been installed correctly by running this command.

  rails -v
  # Rails 4.2.6
  
If you get a different result for some reason, it means your environment may not be setup properly.
  

